Toyota Doesnt Like What Tesla CEO Elon Musk Is Saying About Fuel-Cell Cars - Business Insider Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines. Search icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, Click to perform a search. Business Insider logo The words Business Insider. Account icon An icon in the shape of a persons head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. BI Prime BI Intelligence Account icon An icon in the shape of a persons head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. Subscribe Business The word Business Life The word Life News The word News Search icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, Click to perform a search. Insider logo The word Insider. Close icon Two crossed lines that form an X. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification. Business The word Business Tech Finance Politics Strategy Executive Lifestyle BI Prime BI Intelligence Life The word Life Entertainment Travel Food Style Health News The word News Politics Sports Defense International Opinion All The word All A-Z Advertising Careers Coupons Kohls Target Old Navy Walgreens Photo Wayfair Entertainment Executive Lifestyle Finance Markets Insider Media Military & Defense Personal Finance Politics Retail Science Shopping Sports Strategy Tech Transportation Trending TV Beauty Explorers Best in Town Bonkers Closets Festival Foodies Movies Insider Pop Culture Decoded The Making Of The Ultimate List Featured Better Capitalism Cities Connected Insider TV About About Advertise Careers Contact Us Corporate Corrections Policy Follow Newsletters Events RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Subscriptions BI Intelligence BI Prime Account icon An icon in the shape of a persons head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. Login Subscribe Account icon An icon in the shape of a persons head and shoulders. It often indicates a user profile. My Account Subscribe BI Prime BI Intelligence World globe An icon of the world globe, indicating different international options. US Edition US INTL Australia Deutschland España France India Italia Japan Malaysia México Nederland Nordic Polska Singapore South Africa Facebook Icon The letter F. Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. LinkedIn icon The word in. YouTube icon A play button in the shape of a television screen. Instagram icon A stylized camera. * Copyright © 2020. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service , Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy. Sitemap Disclaimer Commerce Policy CA Privacy Rights Coupons Made in NYC Stock quotes by finanzen.net Reprints & Permissions Coronavirus Live Coverage US Updates Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Global Updates Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. HOMEPAGE Toyota Doesnt Like What Tesla CEO Elon Musk Is Saying About Fuel-Cell Cars John Voelcker, Green Car Reports 2015-01-28T20:39:51Z Facebook Icon The letter F. Email icon An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email. Link icon An image of a chain link. It symobilizes a website link url. Twitter icon A stylized bird with an open mouth, tweeting. LinkedIn icon The word in. Fliboard icon A stylized letter F. More icon Three evenly spaced dots forming an ellipsis: .... Close icon Two crossed lines that form an X. It indicates a way to close an interaction, or dismiss a notification. All the eggs in one basket, Elon? Green Car Reports Toyotas public attack on electric cars shows no signs of letting up. Its first sallies were two ads from its Lexus luxury brand slamming electric cars for range anxiety. Now, a Toyota executive has all but sneered at Tesla Motors for putting all its eggs in one basket by making only battery-electric cars. Toyotas senior vice president for U.S. operations, Bob Carter, apparently made the comments ad hoc during a presentation last week at the J.D. Power Automotive Summit in San Francisco. The comments were reported by industry trade journal Wards Auto. The criticism of Tesla Motors does not appear in the published version of Carters speech released to the media. The long-tenured Toyota executive covered a wide array of topics during his talk. He noted that the struggling Scion youth brand was about to receive new products, and that Toyota intended to sell more SUVs and trucks to cash in on growing market demand. But when the topic turned to the 2016 Toyota Mirai, Carter said that Toyotas first production hydrogen fuel-cell vehicle had so far received 1,600 orders in Japan during the first month it could be ordered.. Thats four times the projection Toyota had made, although its worth noting that more than half of those orders were from government agencies and fleets, not retail buyers. In the U.S., meanwhile, Toyota has now logged 16,000 hand-raisers, or consumers who have signed up to learn more about the Mirai--which will go on sale during the second half of this year With regard to electric-car maker Tesla, however, Carter said he had been disappointed in comments by CEO Elon Musk that hydrogen-powered cars should be called fool-cell vehicles. Perhaps stung by the attention paid to every pronouncement and tweet made by the high-visibility Musk, Carter attributed the comments to what might be viewed as insecurity on Teslas part about the future of plug-in electric vehicles. “If I had all my eggs in one basket, Wards reports him saying, I might be making the same comments.” In his published remarks, which did not contain the Tesla criticism, Carter also said of the fuel-cell car: In reality, Mirai IS an electric vehicle. But the electricity is produced onboard… versus off the grid. And, he added, In other words… the Toyota Fuel Cell System in the new Mirai… is simply… a better battery. Toyota remains one of the most profitable global automakers. Meanwhile, Musk recently said during a Q&A following the Detroit Auto Show that Tesla might not be profitable until 2020 when assessing its performance using conventional Globally Accepted Accounting Standards, or GAAP. Tesla has reported profits by using a variation of those standards, a subject of much debate among stock analysts and electric-car advocates. Read the original article on Green Car Reports. Copyright 2015. Follow Green Car Reports on Twitter. SEE ALSO: The Ford Mustang Is No Longer A Muscle Car More: Tesla Elon Musk Toyota Electric Cars Green Car Reports Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Find A Job Tech Jobs C-Level Jobs Media Jobs Design Jobs Finance Jobs Sales Jobs See All Jobs » Follow us on: Also check out: * Copyright © 2020 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our Terms of Service , Privacy Policy and Cookies Policy . Sitemap Disclaimer Commerce Policy CA Privacy Rights Coupons Made in NYC Stock quotes by finanzen.net Reprints & Permissions Edition International Editions: United States US Check mark icon A check mark. It indicates a confirmation of your intended interaction. International INTL Australia AUS Deutschland DE España ES France FR India IN Italy IT Japan JP Malaysia MY México MX Netherlands NL Nordic SE Polska PL Singapore SG South Africa ZA
